README.rst, before:


============
Nova Formula
============

OpenStack Nova provides a cloud computing fabric controller, supporting a wide
variety of virtualization technologies, including KVM, Xen, LXC, VMware, and
more. In addition to its native API, it includes compatibility with the
commonly encountered Amazon EC2 and S3 APIs.

Sample Pillars
==============

Controller nodes
----------------

Nova services on the controller node

.. code-block:: yaml

    nova:
      controller:
        version: juno
        enabled: true
        security_group: true
        cpu_allocation_ratio: 8.0
        ram_allocation_ratio: 1.0
        disk_allocation_ratio: 1.0
        cross_az_attach: false
        workers: 8
        report_interval: 60
        bind:
          public_address: 10.0.0.122
          public_name: openstack.domain.com
          novncproxy_port: 6080
        database:
          engine: mysql
          host: 127.0.0.1
          port: 3306
          name: nova
          user: nova
          password: pwd
        identity:
          engine: keystone
          host: 127.0.0.1
          port: 35357
          user: nova
          password: pwd
          tenant: service
        message_queue:
          engine: rabbitmq
          host: 127.0.0.1
          port: 5672
          user: openstack
          password: pwd
          virtual_host: '/openstack'
        network:
          engine: neutron
          host: 127.0.0.1
          port: 9696
          extension_sync_interval: 600
          identity:
            engine: keystone
            host: 127.0.0.1
            port: 35357
            user: neutron
            password: pwd
            tenant: service
        metadata:
          password: password
        audit:
          enabled: false
        osapi_max_limit: 500


Nova services from custom package repository

.. code-block:: yaml

    nova:
      controller:
        version: juno
        source:
          engine: pkg
          address: http://...
      ....


Client-side RabbitMQ HA setup

.. code-block:: yaml

   nova:
     controller:
       ....
       message_queue:
         engine: rabbitmq
         members:
           - host: 10.0.16.1
           - host: 10.0.16.2
           - host: 10.0.16.3
         user: openstack
         password: pwd
         virtual_host: '/openstack'
      ....


Enable auditing filter, ie: CADF

.. code-block:: yaml

    nova:
      controller:
        audit:
          enabled: true
      ....
          filter_factory: 'keystonemiddleware.audit:filter_factory'
          map_file: '/etc/pycadf/nova_api_audit_map.conf'
      ....


Enable CORS parameters

.. code-block:: yaml

    nova:
      controller:
        cors:
          allowed_origin: https:localhost.local,http:localhost.local
          expose_headers: X-Auth-Token,X-Openstack-Request-Id,X-Subject-Token
          allow_methods: GET,PUT,POST,DELETE,PATCH
          allow_headers: X-Auth-Token,X-Openstack-Request-Id,X-Subject-Token
          allow_credentials: True
          max_age: 86400

Configuration of policy.json file

.. code-block:: yaml

    nova:
      controller:
        ....
        policy:
          context_is_admin: 'role:admin or role:administrator'
          'compute:create': 'rule:admin_or_owner'
          # Add key without value to remove line from policy.json
          'compute:create:attach_network':

Configuration of the default Availability Zone, if not specified in request

.. code-block:: yaml

    nova:
      controller:
        default_schedule_zone: nova

Client-side RabbitMQ TLS configuration:
---------------------------------------

To enable TLS for oslo.messaging you need to provide the CA certificate.

By default system-wide CA certs is used. Nothing should be specified except `ssl.enabled`.

.. code-block:: yaml

  nova:
    controller:
      ....
      message_queue:
        ssl:
          enabled: True



Use `cacert_file` option to specify the CA-cert file path explicitly:

.. code-block:: yaml

  nova:
    controller:
      ....
      message_queue:
        ssl:
          enabled: True
          cacert_file: /etc/ssl/rabbitmq-ca.pem

To manage content of the `cacert_file` use the `cacert` option:

.. code-block:: yaml

  nova:
    controller:
      ....
      message_queue:
        ssl:
          enabled: True
          cacert: |

          -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
                    ...
          -----END CERTIFICATE-------

          cacert_file: /etc/openstack/rabbitmq-ca.pem


Notice:
 * The `message_queue.port` is set to **5671** (AMQPS) by default if `ssl.enabled=True`.
 * Use `message_queue.ssl.version` if you need to specify protocol version. By default is TLSv1 for python < 2.7.9 and TLSv1_2 for version above.

Compute nodes
-------------

Nova controller services on compute node

.. code-block:: yaml

    nova:
      compute:
        version: juno
        enabled: true
        virtualization: kvm
        cross_az_attach: false
        disk_cachemodes: network=writeback,block=none
        availability_zone: availability_zone_01
        aggregates:
        - hosts_with_fc
        - hosts_with_ssd
        security_group: true
        resume_guests_state_on_host_boot: False
        my_ip: 10.1.0.16
        bind:
          vnc_address: 172.20.0.100
          vnc_port: 6080
          vnc_name: openstack.domain.com
          vnc_protocol: http
        database:
          engine: mysql
          host: 127.0.0.1
          port: 3306
          name: nova
          user: nova
          password: pwd
        identity:
          engine: keystone
          host: 127.0.0.1
          port: 35357
          user: nova
          password: pwd
          tenant: service
        message_queue:
          engine: rabbitmq
          host: 127.0.0.1
          port: 5672
          user: openstack
          password: pwd
          virtual_host: '/openstack'
        image:
          engine: glance
          host: 127.0.0.1
          port: 9292
        network:
          engine: neutron
          host: 127.0.0.1
          port: 9696
          identity:
            engine: keystone
            host: 127.0.0.1
            port: 35357
            user: neutron
            password: pwd
            tenant: service
        qemu:
          max_files: 4096
          max_processes: 4096
        host: node-12.domain.tld

Group membership for user nova (upgrade related)

.. code-block:: yaml

    nova:
      compute:
        enabled: true
        ...
        user:
          groups:
          - libvirt

Nova services on compute node with OpenContrail

.. code-block:: yaml

    nova:
      compute:
        enabled: true
        ...
        networking: contrail


Nova services on compute node with memcached caching

.. code-block:: yaml

    nova:
      compute:
        enabled: true
        ...
        cache:
          engine: memcached
          members:
          - host: 127.0.0.1
            port: 11211
          - host: 127.0.0.1
            port: 11211


Client-side RabbitMQ HA setup

.. code-block:: yaml

   nova:
     compute:
       ....
       message_queue:
         engine: rabbitmq
         members:
           - host: 10.0.16.1
           - host: 10.0.16.2
           - host: 10.0.16.3
         user: openstack
         password: pwd
         virtual_host: '/openstack'
      ....

Nova with ephemeral configured with Ceph

.. code-block:: yaml

    nova:
      compute:
        enabled: true
        ...
        ceph:
          ephemeral: yes
          rbd_pool: nova
          rbd_user: nova
          secret_uuid: 03006edd-d957-40a3-ac4c-26cd254b3731
      ....

Nova with ephemeral configured with LVM

.. code-block:: yaml

    nova:
      compute:
        enabled: true
        ...
        lvm:
          ephemeral: yes
          images_volume_group: nova_vg

    linux:
      storage:
        lvm:
          nova_vg:
            name: nova_vg
            devices:
              - /dev/sdf
              - /dev/sdd
              - /dev/sdg
              - /dev/sde
              - /dev/sdc
              - /dev/sdj
              - /dev/sdh

Client role
-----------

Nova configured with NFS

.. code-block:: yaml

    nova:
      compute:
        instances_path: /mnt/nova/instances

    linux:
      storage:
        enabled: true
        mount:
          nfs_nova:
            enabled: true
            path: ${nova:compute:instances_path}
            device: 172.31.35.145:/data
            file_system: nfs
            opts: rw,vers=3

Nova flavors

.. code-block:: yaml

  nova:
    client:
      enabled: true
      server:
        identity:
          flavor:
            flavor1:
              flavor_id: 10
              ram: 4096
              disk: 10
              vcpus: 1
            flavor2:
              flavor_id: auto
              ram: 4096
              disk: 20
              vcpus: 2
        identity1:
          flavor:
            ...


Availability zones

.. code-block:: yaml

    nova:
      client:
        enabled: true
        server:
          identity:
            availability_zones:
            - availability_zone_01
            - availability_zone_02



Aggregates

.. code-block:: yaml

    nova:
      client:
        enabled: true
        server:
          identity:
            aggregates:
            - aggregate1
            - aggregate2

Upgrade levels

.. code-block:: yaml

    nova:
      controller:
        upgrade_levels:
          compute: juno

    nova:
      compute:
        upgrade_levels:
          compute: juno

SR-IOV
------

Add PciPassthroughFilter into scheduler filters and NICs on specific compute nodes.

.. code-block:: yaml

  nova:
    controller:
      sriov: true
      scheduler_default_filters: "DifferentHostFilter,RetryFilter,AvailabilityZoneFilter,RamFilter,CoreFilter,DiskFilter,ComputeFilter,ComputeCapabilitiesFilter,ImagePropertiesFilter,ServerGroupAntiAffinityFilter,ServerGroupAffinityFilter,PciPassthroughFilter"

  nova:
    compute:
      sriov:
        nic_one:
          devname: eth1
          physical_network: physnet1

CPU pinning & Hugepages
-----------------------

CPU pinning of virtual machine instances to dedicated physical CPU cores.
Hugepages mount point for libvirt.

.. code-block:: yaml

  nova:
    controller:
      scheduler_default_filters: "DifferentHostFilter,RetryFilter,AvailabilityZoneFilter,RamFilter,CoreFilter,DiskFilter,ComputeFilter,ComputeCapabilitiesFilter,ImagePropertiesFilter,ServerGroupAntiAffinityFilter,ServerGroupAffinityFilter,NUMATopologyFilter,AggregateInstanceExtraSpecsFilter"

  nova:
    compute:
      vcpu_pin_set: 2,3,4,5
      hugepages:
        mount_points:
        - path: /mnt/hugepages_1GB
        - path: /mnt/hugepages_2MB

Custom Scheduler filters
------------------------

If you have a custom filter, that needs to be included in the scheduler, then you can include it like so:

.. code-block:: yaml

  nova:
    controller:
      scheduler_custom_filters:
      - my_custom_driver.nova.scheduler.filters.my_custom_filter.MyCustomFilter

      # Then add your custom filter on the end (make sure to include all other ones that you need as well)
      scheduler_default_filters: "DifferentHostFilter,RetryFilter,AvailabilityZoneFilter,RamFilter,CoreFilter,DiskFilter,ComputeFilter,ComputeCapabilitiesFilter,ImagePropertiesFilter,ServerGroupAntiAffinityFilter,ServerGroupAffinityFilter,PciPassthroughFilter,MyCustomFilter"

Hardware Trip/Unmap Support
---------------------------

To enable TRIM support for ephemeral images (thru nova managed images), libvirt has this option.

.. code-block:: yaml

  nova:
    compute:
      libvirt:
        hw_disk_discard: unmap

In order to actually utilize this feature, the following metadata must be set on the image as well, so the SCSI unmap is supported.

.. code-block:: bash

  glance image-update --property hw_scsi_model=virtio-scsi <image>
  glance image-update --property hw_disk_bus=scsi <image>


Scheduler Host Manager
----------------------

Specify a custom host manager.

libvirt CPU mode
----------------

Allow setting the model of CPU that is exposed to a VM. This allows better
support live migration between hypervisors with different hardware, among other
things. Defaults to host-passthrough.


.. code-block:: yaml

  nova:
    controller:
      scheduler_host_manager: ironic_host_manager

    compute:
      cpu_mode: host-model

Nova compute workarounds
------------------------

Live snapshotting is disabled by default in nova. To enable this, it needs a manual switch.

From manual:

.. code-block:: yaml

  # When using libvirt 1.2.2 live snapshots fail intermittently under load
  # (likely related to concurrent libvirt/qemu operations). This config
  # option provides a mechanism to disable live snapshot, in favor of cold
  # snapshot, while this is resolved. Cold snapshot causes an instance
  # outage while the guest is going through the snapshotting process.
  #
  # For more information, refer to the bug report:
  #
  #   https://bugs.launchpad.net/nova/+bug/1334398

Configurable pillar data:

.. code-block:: yaml

  nova:
    compute:
      workaround:
        disable_libvirt_livesnapshot: False

Config drive options
--------------------

See example below on how to configure the options for the config drive.

.. code-block:: yaml

  nova:
    compute:
      config_drive:
        forced: True  # Default: True
        cdrom: True  # Default: False
        format: iso9660  # Default: vfat
        inject_password: False  # Default: False


Documentation and Bugs
======================

To learn how to install and update salt-formulas, consult the documentation
available online at:

    http://salt-formulas.readthedocs.io/

In the unfortunate event that bugs are discovered, they should be reported to
the appropriate issue tracker. Use Github issue tracker for specific salt
formula:

    https://github.com/salt-formulas/salt-formula-nova/issues

For feature requests, bug reports or blueprints affecting entire ecosystem,
use Launchpad salt-formulas project:

    https://launchpad.net/salt-formulas

You can also join salt-formulas-users team and subscribe to mailing list:

    https://launchpad.net/~salt-formulas-users

Developers wishing to work on the salt-formulas projects should always base
their work on master branch and submit pull request against specific formula.

    https://github.com/salt-formulas/salt-formula-nova

Any questions or feedback is always welcome so feel free to join our IRC
channel:

    #salt-formulas @ irc.freenode.net

Commit message:

Add option max_concurrent_live_migrations

README.rst, after:


============
Nova Formula
============

OpenStack Nova provides a cloud computing fabric controller, supporting a wide
variety of virtualization technologies, including KVM, Xen, LXC, VMware, and
more. In addition to its native API, it includes compatibility with the
commonly encountered Amazon EC2 and S3 APIs.

Sample Pillars
==============

Controller nodes
----------------

Nova services on the controller node

.. code-block:: yaml

    nova:
      controller:
        version: juno
        enabled: true
        security_group: true
        cpu_allocation_ratio: 8.0
        ram_allocation_ratio: 1.0
        disk_allocation_ratio: 1.0
        cross_az_attach: false
        workers: 8
        report_interval: 60
        bind:
          public_address: 10.0.0.122
          public_name: openstack.domain.com
          novncproxy_port: 6080
        database:
          engine: mysql
          host: 127.0.0.1
          port: 3306
          name: nova
          user: nova
          password: pwd
        identity:
          engine: keystone
          host: 127.0.0.1
          port: 35357
          user: nova
          password: pwd
          tenant: service
        message_queue:
          engine: rabbitmq
          host: 127.0.0.1
          port: 5672
          user: openstack
          password: pwd
          virtual_host: '/openstack'
        network:
          engine: neutron
          host: 127.0.0.1
          port: 9696
          extension_sync_interval: 600
          identity:
            engine: keystone
            host: 127.0.0.1
            port: 35357
            user: neutron
            password: pwd
            tenant: service
        metadata:
          password: password
        audit:
          enabled: false
        osapi_max_limit: 500


Nova services from custom package repository

.. code-block:: yaml

    nova:
      controller:
        version: juno
        source:
          engine: pkg
          address: http://...
      ....


Client-side RabbitMQ HA setup

.. code-block:: yaml

   nova:
     controller:
       ....
       message_queue:
         engine: rabbitmq
         members:
           - host: 10.0.16.1
           - host: 10.0.16.2
           - host: 10.0.16.3
         user: openstack
         password: pwd
         virtual_host: '/openstack'
      ....


Enable auditing filter, ie: CADF

.. code-block:: yaml

    nova:
      controller:
        audit:
          enabled: true
      ....
          filter_factory: 'keystonemiddleware.audit:filter_factory'
          map_file: '/etc/pycadf/nova_api_audit_map.conf'
      ....


Enable CORS parameters

.. code-block:: yaml

    nova:
      controller:
        cors:
          allowed_origin: https:localhost.local,http:localhost.local
          expose_headers: X-Auth-Token,X-Openstack-Request-Id,X-Subject-Token
          allow_methods: GET,PUT,POST,DELETE,PATCH
          allow_headers: X-Auth-Token,X-Openstack-Request-Id,X-Subject-Token
          allow_credentials: True
          max_age: 86400

Configuration of policy.json file

.. code-block:: yaml

    nova:
      controller:
        ....
        policy:
          context_is_admin: 'role:admin or role:administrator'
          'compute:create': 'rule:admin_or_owner'
          # Add key without value to remove line from policy.json
          'compute:create:attach_network':

Configuration of the default Availability Zone, if not specified in request

.. code-block:: yaml

    nova:
      controller:
        default_schedule_zone: nova

Client-side RabbitMQ TLS configuration:
---------------------------------------

To enable TLS for oslo.messaging you need to provide the CA certificate.

By default system-wide CA certs is used. Nothing should be specified except `ssl.enabled`.

.. code-block:: yaml

  nova:
    controller:
      ....
      message_queue:
        ssl:
          enabled: True



Use `cacert_file` option to specify the CA-cert file path explicitly:

.. code-block:: yaml

  nova:
    controller:
      ....
      message_queue:
        ssl:
          enabled: True
          cacert_file: /etc/ssl/rabbitmq-ca.pem

To manage content of the `cacert_file` use the `cacert` option:

.. code-block:: yaml

  nova:
    controller:
      ....
      message_queue:
        ssl:
          enabled: True
          cacert: |

          -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
                    ...
          -----END CERTIFICATE-------

          cacert_file: /etc/openstack/rabbitmq-ca.pem


Notice:
 * The `message_queue.port` is set to **5671** (AMQPS) by default if `ssl.enabled=True`.
 * Use `message_queue.ssl.version` if you need to specify protocol version. By default is TLSv1 for python < 2.7.9 and TLSv1_2 for version above.

Compute nodes
-------------

Nova controller services on compute node

.. code-block:: yaml

    nova:
      compute:
        version: juno
        enabled: true
        virtualization: kvm
        cross_az_attach: false
        disk_cachemodes: network=writeback,block=none
        availability_zone: availability_zone_01
        aggregates:
        - hosts_with_fc
        - hosts_with_ssd
        security_group: true
        resume_guests_state_on_host_boot: False
        my_ip: 10.1.0.16
        bind:
          vnc_address: 172.20.0.100
          vnc_port: 6080
          vnc_name: openstack.domain.com
          vnc_protocol: http
        database:
          engine: mysql
          host: 127.0.0.1
          port: 3306
          name: nova
          user: nova
          password: pwd
        identity:
          engine: keystone
          host: 127.0.0.1
          port: 35357
          user: nova
          password: pwd
          tenant: service
        message_queue:
          engine: rabbitmq
          host: 127.0.0.1
          port: 5672
          user: openstack
          password: pwd
          virtual_host: '/openstack'
        image:
          engine: glance
          host: 127.0.0.1
          port: 9292
        network:
          engine: neutron
          host: 127.0.0.1
          port: 9696
          identity:
            engine: keystone
            host: 127.0.0.1
            port: 35357
            user: neutron
            password: pwd
            tenant: service
        qemu:
          max_files: 4096
          max_processes: 4096
        host: node-12.domain.tld

Group membership for user nova (upgrade related)

.. code-block:: yaml

    nova:
      compute:
        enabled: true
        ...
        user:
          groups:
          - libvirt

Nova services on compute node with OpenContrail

.. code-block:: yaml

    nova:
      compute:
        enabled: true
        ...
        networking: contrail


Nova services on compute node with memcached caching

.. code-block:: yaml

    nova:
      compute:
        enabled: true
        ...
        cache:
          engine: memcached
          members:
          - host: 127.0.0.1
            port: 11211
          - host: 127.0.0.1
            port: 11211


Client-side RabbitMQ HA setup

.. code-block:: yaml

   nova:
     compute:
       ....
       message_queue:
         engine: rabbitmq
         members:
           - host: 10.0.16.1
           - host: 10.0.16.2
           - host: 10.0.16.3
         user: openstack
         password: pwd
         virtual_host: '/openstack'
      ....

Nova with ephemeral configured with Ceph

.. code-block:: yaml

    nova:
      compute:
        enabled: true
        ...
        ceph:
          ephemeral: yes
          rbd_pool: nova
          rbd_user: nova
          secret_uuid: 03006edd-d957-40a3-ac4c-26cd254b3731
      ....

Nova with ephemeral configured with LVM

.. code-block:: yaml

    nova:
      compute:
        enabled: true
        ...
        lvm:
          ephemeral: yes
          images_volume_group: nova_vg

    linux:
      storage:
        lvm:
          nova_vg:
            name: nova_vg
            devices:
              - /dev/sdf
              - /dev/sdd
              - /dev/sdg
              - /dev/sde
              - /dev/sdc
              - /dev/sdj
              - /dev/sdh

Client role
-----------

Nova configured with NFS

.. code-block:: yaml

    nova:
      compute:
        instances_path: /mnt/nova/instances

    linux:
      storage:
        enabled: true
        mount:
          nfs_nova:
            enabled: true
            path: ${nova:compute:instances_path}
            device: 172.31.35.145:/data
            file_system: nfs
            opts: rw,vers=3

Nova flavors

.. code-block:: yaml

  nova:
    client:
      enabled: true
      server:
        identity:
          flavor:
            flavor1:
              flavor_id: 10
              ram: 4096
              disk: 10
              vcpus: 1
            flavor2:
              flavor_id: auto
              ram: 4096
              disk: 20
              vcpus: 2
        identity1:
          flavor:
            ...


Availability zones

.. code-block:: yaml

    nova:
      client:
        enabled: true
        server:
          identity:
            availability_zones:
            - availability_zone_01
            - availability_zone_02



Aggregates

.. code-block:: yaml

    nova:
      client:
        enabled: true
        server:
          identity:
            aggregates:
            - aggregate1
            - aggregate2

Upgrade levels

.. code-block:: yaml

    nova:
      controller:
        upgrade_levels:
          compute: juno

    nova:
      compute:
        upgrade_levels:
          compute: juno

SR-IOV
------

Add PciPassthroughFilter into scheduler filters and NICs on specific compute nodes.

.. code-block:: yaml

  nova:
    controller:
      sriov: true
      scheduler_default_filters: "DifferentHostFilter,RetryFilter,AvailabilityZoneFilter,RamFilter,CoreFilter,DiskFilter,ComputeFilter,ComputeCapabilitiesFilter,ImagePropertiesFilter,ServerGroupAntiAffinityFilter,ServerGroupAffinityFilter,PciPassthroughFilter"

  nova:
    compute:
      sriov:
        nic_one:
          devname: eth1
          physical_network: physnet1

CPU pinning & Hugepages
-----------------------

CPU pinning of virtual machine instances to dedicated physical CPU cores.
Hugepages mount point for libvirt.

.. code-block:: yaml

  nova:
    controller:
      scheduler_default_filters: "DifferentHostFilter,RetryFilter,AvailabilityZoneFilter,RamFilter,CoreFilter,DiskFilter,ComputeFilter,ComputeCapabilitiesFilter,ImagePropertiesFilter,ServerGroupAntiAffinityFilter,ServerGroupAffinityFilter,NUMATopologyFilter,AggregateInstanceExtraSpecsFilter"

  nova:
    compute:
      vcpu_pin_set: 2,3,4,5
      hugepages:
        mount_points:
        - path: /mnt/hugepages_1GB
        - path: /mnt/hugepages_2MB

Custom Scheduler filters
------------------------

If you have a custom filter, that needs to be included in the scheduler, then you can include it like so:

.. code-block:: yaml

  nova:
    controller:
      scheduler_custom_filters:
      - my_custom_driver.nova.scheduler.filters.my_custom_filter.MyCustomFilter

      # Then add your custom filter on the end (make sure to include all other ones that you need as well)
      scheduler_default_filters: "DifferentHostFilter,RetryFilter,AvailabilityZoneFilter,RamFilter,CoreFilter,DiskFilter,ComputeFilter,ComputeCapabilitiesFilter,ImagePropertiesFilter,ServerGroupAntiAffinityFilter,ServerGroupAffinityFilter,PciPassthroughFilter,MyCustomFilter"

Hardware Trip/Unmap Support
---------------------------

To enable TRIM support for ephemeral images (thru nova managed images), libvirt has this option.

.. code-block:: yaml

  nova:
    compute:
      libvirt:
        hw_disk_discard: unmap

In order to actually utilize this feature, the following metadata must be set on the image as well, so the SCSI unmap is supported.

.. code-block:: bash

  glance image-update --property hw_scsi_model=virtio-scsi <image>
  glance image-update --property hw_disk_bus=scsi <image>


Scheduler Host Manager
----------------------

Specify a custom host manager.

libvirt CPU mode
----------------

Allow setting the model of CPU that is exposed to a VM. This allows better
support live migration between hypervisors with different hardware, among other
things. Defaults to host-passthrough.


.. code-block:: yaml

  nova:
    controller:
      scheduler_host_manager: ironic_host_manager

    compute:
      cpu_mode: host-model

Nova compute workarounds
------------------------

Live snapshotting is disabled by default in nova. To enable this, it needs a manual switch.

From manual:

.. code-block:: yaml

  # When using libvirt 1.2.2 live snapshots fail intermittently under load
  # (likely related to concurrent libvirt/qemu operations). This config
  # option provides a mechanism to disable live snapshot, in favor of cold
  # snapshot, while this is resolved. Cold snapshot causes an instance
  # outage while the guest is going through the snapshotting process.
  #
  # For more information, refer to the bug report:
  #
  #   https://bugs.launchpad.net/nova/+bug/1334398

Configurable pillar data:

.. code-block:: yaml

  nova:
    compute:
      workaround:
        disable_libvirt_livesnapshot: False

Config drive options
--------------------

See example below on how to configure the options for the config drive.

.. code-block:: yaml

  nova:
    compute:
      config_drive:
        forced: True  # Default: True
        cdrom: True  # Default: False
        format: iso9660  # Default: vfat
        inject_password: False  # Default: False

Number of concurrent live migrates
----------------------------------

Default is to have no concurrent live migrations (so 1 live-migration at a time).

Excerpt from config options page (https://docs.openstack.org/ocata/config-reference/compute/config-options.html):

  Maximum number of live migrations to run concurrently. This limit is
  enforced to avoid outbound live migrations overwhelming the host/network
  and causing failures. It is not recommended that you change this unless
  you are very sure that doing so is safe and stable in your environment.

  Possible values:

  - 0 : treated as unlimited.
  - Negative value defaults to 0.
  - Any positive integer representing maximum number of live migrations to run concurrently.

To configure this option:

.. code-block:: yaml

  nova:
    compute:
      max_concurrent_live_migrations: 1  # (1 is the default)


Documentation and Bugs
======================

To learn how to install and update salt-formulas, consult the documentation
available online at:

    http://salt-formulas.readthedocs.io/

In the unfortunate event that bugs are discovered, they should be reported to
the appropriate issue tracker. Use Github issue tracker for specific salt
formula:

    https://github.com/salt-formulas/salt-formula-nova/issues

For feature requests, bug reports or blueprints affecting entire ecosystem,
use Launchpad salt-formulas project:

    https://launchpad.net/salt-formulas

You can also join salt-formulas-users team and subscribe to mailing list:

    https://launchpad.net/~salt-formulas-users

Developers wishing to work on the salt-formulas projects should always base
their work on master branch and submit pull request against specific formula.

    https://github.com/salt-formulas/salt-formula-nova

Any questions or feedback is always welcome so feel free to join our IRC
channel:

    #salt-formulas @ irc.freenode.net
